dp/README.md, before:

# Dynamic Programming
Dynamic programming usually divide the problem into 4 parts: 
1. define state: whether it's one sequence, two sequence, what is the meaning of the state
2. state initialization: what is state[0] or state[0][0] or state[i][0] or state[0][j] which are the boundary condition
3. state transfer: according to the problem, how to compose the state transfer function
4. result return

One sequence: 
Single String iteration problem: LCS/ LIS, Word Break, Decode Ways, Longest Valid Parentheses, Palindrome min cut 
Single Array subset filtering problem: maximum product sub array, Jump game, 

Two sequence: 
Two String manipulation problem: Interleaving string, edit distance, distinct subsequences, scramble string, regex matching, wildcard matching,  
matrix iteration problem: unique path, minimum path sum, dungeon game, maximum rectangle

## One Sequence

LCS/ LIS: 
1. state[i] is lcs of s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 0; state[1] = 1;
3. for j = 0 ... i - 1, if(s[i] >= s[j]) state[i] = max(state[i], state[j] + 1);
4. return state[s.length()]

word break: 
1. boolean[] state[i] is string[0...i-1] can word break or not.
2. state[0] = true
3. for j <- 0...i-1, if(state[j] && substring(j-1, i) is in dict) state[i] = true
4. return state[s.length()]

Decode ways: 
1. state[i] is number of decode ways for substring s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 1; state[1] = 1;
3. if s[i-1] == '0' 
		// invalid cases: 
		if(s[i-2] > '2' || s[i-2] == '0') return 0;	 
		// can only be interpreted as 10 or 20, so it's same as state[i-2], that's why state[0] = 1; 
		state[i] = state[i-2];
	else
		int val = (s[i-2] - '0') * 10 + (s[i-1] - '0');
		if(val > 10 && val <= 26) state[i] = state[i-1] + state[i-2]; 
		else state[i] = state[i-1];
4. return state[s.length()];

Longest Valid Parentheses:
1. state[i] is LVP of s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 0
3. if(s[i-1] == '(') state[i] = 0;
   else 
       if(i - state[i-1] >= 1 && s[i-state[i-1] - 1] == '(') 
       		if(i - state[i-1] - 2 < 0)
       			state[i] = state[i-1] + 2;
       	    else 
       	    	state[i] = state[i-1] + 2 + state[i-state[i-1] - 2];
4. max(state[i], i <- 1....s.length())

Palindrome Min Cut
1. state[i] is the number of min cut of S[0...i-1]
2. init: state[0] = 0; state[1] = 0; state[i] = i;
3. for j <- 0...i, if(isPalindrom(S[j-1...i])) state[i] = Math.min(state[i], state[j-1] + 1);
4. return  state[s.length()]


maximum product sub array:


Jump game: 

## Two Sequences:

Commit message:

add dp solution for one sequence, add jump game and LVP

dp/README.md, after:

# Dynamic Programming
Dynamic programming usually divide the problem into 4 parts: 
1. define state: whether it's one sequence, two sequence, what is the meaning of the state
2. state initialization: what is state[0] or state[0][0] or state[i][0] or state[0][j] which are the boundary condition
3. state transfer: according to the problem, how to compose the state transfer function
4. result return

One sequence: 
Single String iteration problem: LCS/ LIS, Word Break, Decode Ways, Longest Valid Parentheses, Palindrome min cut 
Single Array subset filtering problem: maximum product sub array, Jump game, 

Two sequence: 
Two String manipulation problem: Interleaving string, edit distance, distinct subsequences, scramble string, regex matching, wildcard matching,  
matrix iteration problem: unique path, minimum path sum, dungeon game, maximum rectangle

## One Sequence

LCS/ LIS: 
1. state[i] is lcs of s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 0; state[1] = 1;
3. for j = 0 ... i - 1, if(s[i] >= s[j]) state[i] = max(state[i], state[j] + 1);
4. return state[s.length()]

word break: 
1. boolean[] state[i] is string[0...i-1] can word break or not.
2. state[0] = true
3. for j <- 0...i-1, if(state[j] && substring(j-1, i) is in dict) state[i] = true
4. return state[s.length()]

Decode ways: 
1. state[i] is number of decode ways for substring s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 1; state[1] = 1;
3. if s[i-1] == '0' 
		// invalid cases: 
		if(s[i-2] > '2' || s[i-2] == '0') return 0;	 
		// can only be interpreted as 10 or 20, so it's same as state[i-2], that's why state[0] = 1; 
		state[i] = state[i-2];
	else
		int val = (s[i-2] - '0') * 10 + (s[i-1] - '0');
		if(val > 10 && val <= 26) state[i] = state[i-1] + state[i-2]; 
		else state[i] = state[i-1];
4. return state[s.length()];

Longest Valid Parentheses:
1. state[i] is LVP of s[0...i-1]
2. state[0] = 0
3. if(s[i-1] == '(') state[i] = 0;
   else 
       if(i - state[i-1] >= 1 && s[i-state[i-1] - 1] == '(') 
       		if(i - state[i-1] - 2 < 0)
       			state[i] = state[i-1] + 2;
       	    else 
       	    	state[i] = state[i-1] + 2 + state[i-state[i-1] - 2];
4. max(state[i], i <- 1....s.length())

Palindrome Min Cut
1. state[i] is the number of min cut of S[0...i-1]
2. init: state[0] = 0; state[1] = 0; state[i] = i;
3. for j <- 0...i, if(isPalindrom(S[j-1...i])) state[i] = Math.min(state[i], state[j-1] + 1);
4. return  state[s.length()]


maximum product sub array:
1. max[i] is current maximum product, min[i] is current minimal product
   we record maximal and minimal because there may be negative numbers which either current should fall in either max or min
   As we only need the last index value of max and min, so no need to keep all the value there.
2. max = min = A[0]
3. max = Math.max(Math.max(A[i], lastMax * A[i]), lastMin * A[i])
   min = Math.min(Math.min(A[i], lastMax * A[i]), lastMin * A[i]) 
4. max during iteration.

Jump game I: 
Question: given an array of integer, which refers to the length it can reach. determine if given array can jump from first index to the last
solution: use greedy thinking, if index can reach end, then just determine whether can reach index which index <- 0...index.
init: index = end = nums.length - 1;
iteration: while(index >= 0) if(nums[index] >= end - index) end = index; index--;
result: end == 0;

Jump game II: 
jump from first to the last, for the min number of jump

1. state[i] is the min step needed for jump from 0 to i
2. state[i] = Integer.MAX_VALUE, state[0] = 0;
3. reachable = Math.max(reachable, A[i]), for j <- i - reachable (min=0) to i; 
   if(state[j] != Integer.MAX_VALUE && state[j] + 1 < state[i]) state[i] = state[j] + 1; 

4. state[nums.length - 1]

## Two Sequences: 
Interleaving string
